.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH rift 1  "rift " "rift manual"
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH NAME
rift \- rift: a tiling window manager for macOS
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrift\fR [\fB\-\-one\fR] [\fB\-\-default\-disable\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-animate\fR] [\fB\-\-validate\fR] [\fB\-\-restore\fR] [\fB\-\-record\fR] [\fB\-\-config\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fIsubcommands\fR]
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH DESCRIPTION
rift: a tiling window manager for macOS
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH OPTIONS
rift: a tiling window manager for macOS
.TP
\fBUsage: rift [OPTIONS] [COMMAND]\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-one\fR
Only run the window manager on the current space
.TP
\fB\-\-default\-disable\fR
Disable new spaces by default.

Ignored if \-\-one is used.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-animate\fR
Disable animations
.TP
\fB\-\-validate\fR
No\-op compatibility check for the deprecated restore file path
.TP
\fB\-\-restore\fR
Deprecated no\-op flag retained for CLI compatibility
.TP
\fB\-\-record\fR
Record reactor events to the specified file path. Overwrites the file if exists
.TP
\fB\-\-config\fR
Path to configuration file to use (overrides default)
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH "SUBCOMMAND: rift service"
Manage the launchd service for rift
.TP
\fBUsage: rift service <COMMAND>\fR
.PP
\fBCommands:\fR
.TP
\fBrift service install\fR
Install the per\-user launchd service
.TP
\fBrift service uninstall\fR
Uninstall the per\-user launchd service
.TP
\fBrift service start\fR
Start (or bootstrap) the service
.TP
\fBrift service stop\fR
Stop (or bootout/kill) the service
.TP
\fBrift service restart\fR
Restart the service (kickstart \-k)
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH CONFIGURATION
Rift reads \fB~/.config/rift/config.toml\fR on startup. Each table below describes a section of that file. Descriptions are pulled directly from the source\*(Aqs doc comments via the documented crate, so they stay in sync with the code.
.SS [settings]
Top\-level user settings (the `[settings]` TOML table).
.PP
\fIExample (from rift.default.toml):\fR
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
# Animations
.br
# \- animate: master switch for all window animations
.br
# \- animation_duration: seconds per animation (>= 0.0, typical 0.15–0.35)
.br
# \- animation_fps: frames per second (0.0 = display refresh rate). 60–120 recommended.
.br
#   ease_in_circ, ease_out_circ, ease_in_out_circ
.br
animate = false
.br
animation_duration = 0.3
.br
animation_fps = 100.0
.br

.br
# Space activation behavior
.br
# \- If true, spaces start inactive (rift does not manage windows there)
.br
#   and you must toggle activation via a keybind (toggle_space_activated).
.br
# \- If false, spaces are managed by default and you can disable specific ones.
.br
# Default is true; uncomment to change.
.br
#default_disable = false
.br

.br
# Mouse/Focus behavior
.br
# \- focus_follows_mouse: moving the mouse into a window focuses it
.br
# \- mouse_follows_focus: when focus changes, move the mouse to the focused window
.br
# \- mouse_hides_on_focus: hide the mouse cursor after focusing a window
.br
focus_follows_mouse = true
.br
mouse_follows_focus = true
.br
mouse_hides_on_focus = true
.br
# focus_follows_mouse_disable_hotkey temporarily suspends focus\-follows\-mouse while held
.br
# e.g. "Fn"; omit or set to null to keep focus\-follows\-mouse always active
.br
#focus_follows_mouse_disable_hotkey = "Fn"
.br

.br
# Prevent certain apps from stealing focus/causing workspace switches
.br
# Provide bundle identifiers (e.g., "com.apple.Spotlight")
.br
# Examples:
.br
#   "com.apple.dock", "com.apple.systemuiserver", "com.apple.SecurityAgent",
.br
#   "com.raycast.macos", "com.apple.Spotlight"
.br
auto_focus_blacklist = []
.br

.br
# Run commands on start
.br
#
.br
# Tip: You can subscribe to rift events and trigger your own scripts. The command will
.br
# receive environment variables with context:
.br
#   RIFT_EVENT_TYPE            # "workspace_changed" | "windows_changed" | "window_title_changed"
.br
#   RIFT_WORKSPACE_ID          # workspace id
.br
#   RIFT_WORKSPACE_NAME        # workspace name
.br
#   RIFT_WORKSPACE_INDEX       # workspace index (window_title_changed only)
.br
#   RIFT_WINDOW_COUNT          # number of windows (windows_changed only)
.br
#   RIFT_WINDOWS               # comma\-separated window ids (windows_changed only)
.br
#   RIFT_WINDOW_ID             # window id (window_title_changed only)
.br
#   RIFT_PREVIOUS_WINDOW_TITLE # previous title (window_title_changed only)
.br
#   RIFT_WINDOW_TITLE          # new title (window_title_changed only)
.br
#   RIFT_EVENT_JSON            # full JSON payload of the event
.br
#
.br
# Example (sketchybar integration):
.br
# run_on_start = [
.br
#   "rift\-cli subscribe cli \-\-event workspace_changed \-\-command sh \-\-args \-c \-\-args \*(Aqsketchybar \-\-trigger rift_workspace_changed RIFT_WORKSPACE_NAME=\\"$RIFT_WORKSPACE_NAME\\" RIFT_WORKSPACE_ID=\\"$RIFT_WORKSPACE_ID\\"\*(Aq",
.br
#   "rift\-cli subscribe cli \-\-event windows_changed \-\-command sh \-\-args \-c \-\-args \*(Aqsketchybar \-\-trigger rift_windows_changed RIFT_WORKSPACE_NAME=\\"$RIFT_WORKSPACE_NAME\\" RIFT_WINDOW_COUNT=\\"$RIFT_WINDOW_COUNT\\"\*(Aq"
.br
# ]
.br

.br
run_on_start = []
.br

.br
# Hot Reloading
.br
# \- If true, rift will watch the config file for changes and reload automatically.
.br
# \- If false, your config changes will only apply when restarting rift.
.br
hot_reload = true
.br
.RE
.fi
.TP
\fBanimate\fR
Master switch for all window animations.
.TP
\fBanimation_duration\fR
Animation duration in seconds (>= 0.0; typical 0.15\-0.35).
.TP
\fBanimation_fps\fR
Target animation frame rate. `0.0` follows the display refresh rate.
.TP
\fBanimation_easing\fR
Easing curve applied to window animations.
.TP
\fBdefault_disable\fR
If true, new macOS spaces start unmanaged and must be toggled in.
.TP
\fBmouse_follows_focus\fR
When focus changes, move the mouse to the focused window.
.TP
\fBmouse_hides_on_focus\fR
Hide the mouse cursor after a focus change.
.TP
\fBfocus_follows_mouse\fR
Moving the mouse over a window gives it focus.
.TP
\fBfocus_follows_mouse_disable_hotkey\fR
Hotkey that disables focus\-follows\-mouse while held.
Accepts either a full hotkey (e.g. "Ctrl + A") or a modifier\-only spec (e.g. "Ctrl")
.TP
\fBauto_focus_blacklist\fR
Apps that should not trigger automatic workspace switching when activated.
List of bundle identifiers (e.g., "com.apple.Spotlight") that often
inappropriately steal focus and shouldn\*(Aqt cause workspace switches.
.TP
\fBlayout\fR
Layout\-related sub\-settings (see [`LayoutSettings`]).
.TP
\fBui\fR
UI chrome sub\-settings (menu bar, stack line, mission control).
.TP
\fBgestures\fR
Trackpad gesture settings
.TP
\fBwindow_snapping\fR
Drag\-to\-swap snapping behaviour.
.TP
\fBrun_on_start\fR
Commands to run on startup (e.g., for subscribing to events)
.TP
\fBhot_reload\fR
Whether to reapply app rules when a window title changes.
Enable hot\-reloading of the config file when it changes
.SS [settings.layout]
Container for layout\-related sub\-settings.
.PP
\fIExample (from rift.default.toml):\fR
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
# Layout Types:
.br
# 	\- "traditional" (i3/sway\-like containers)
.br
#	\- "bsp" (binary space partitioning),
.br
#   \- "stack" (single stacked container)
.br
#   \- "master_stack" (master area + stack area)
.br
# defaults to "traditional" if omitted
.br
#
.br
# This is the default layout mode if there is nothing else configured
.br
# in the `workspace_rules` section below.
.br
# You can set different layouts per workspace using `workspace_rules`.
.br
mode = "traditional"
.br
.RE
.fi
.TP
\fBmode\fR
Layout mode: "traditional", "bsp", "stack", "master_stack", or "scrolling"
.TP
\fBstack\fR
Stack system configuration
.TP
\fBmaster_stack\fR
Master/stack layout configuration
.TP
\fBgaps\fR
Gap configuration for window spacing
.TP
\fBscrolling\fR
Scrolling layout configuration (niri\-style columns)
.SS [settings.layout.master_stack]
Settings for the master/stack layout.
.PP
\fIExample (from rift.default.toml):\fR
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
# Fraction of space reserved for the master area (0.05..0.95)
.br
master_ratio = 0.6
.br
# Number of windows kept in the master area (>= 1)
.br
master_count = 1
.br
# Which side the master area occupies (left | right | top | bottom)
.br
master_side = "left"
.br
# Where new windows go when the master area is already full (master | stack | focused)
.br
new_window_placement = "master"
.br
.RE
.fi
.TP
\fBmaster_ratio\fR
Fraction of space reserved for the master area (0.05..0.95)
.TP
\fBmaster_count\fR
Number of windows kept in the master area (>= 1)
.TP
\fBmaster_side\fR
Which side the master area occupies
.TP
\fBnew_window_placement\fR
Where new windows are inserted when the master area is already full
.SS [settings.layout.scrolling]
Settings for the scrolling (niri\-style) layout.
.PP
\fIExample (from rift.default.toml):\fR
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
# width of the active column (0..1 of screen width)
.br
column_width_ratio = 0.7
.br
# min_column_width_ratio / max_column_width_ratio: clamp bounds used by resize commands
.br
min_column_width_ratio = 0.3
.br
max_column_width_ratio = 0.9
.br
# Alignment for the focused column: "left", "center", or "right"
.br
alignment = "center"
.br
# Horizontal focus behavior:
.br
# \- "niri": reveal columns only when needed based on navigation direction
.br
# 			(disrespects alignment setting above)
.br
# \- "anchored": always align focused column according to `alignment`
.br
focus_navigation_style = "niri"
.br
.RE
.fi
.TP
\fBanimate\fR
Whether to animate window transitions in this layout.
.TP
\fBcolumn_width_ratio\fR
Default width of the active column, as a fraction of the screen width.
.TP
\fBmin_column_width_ratio\fR
Minimum column width ratio allowed by resize commands.
.TP
\fBmax_column_width_ratio\fR
Maximum column width ratio allowed by resize commands.
.TP
\fBalignment\fR
Alignment for the focused column (left, center, right).
.TP
\fBfocus_navigation_style\fR
Horizontal focus navigation behavior:
\- niri: reveal only as needed based on navigation direction.
\- anchored: always align focused column to `alignment`.
.TP
\fBgestures\fR
Trackpad gestures for scrolling layout
.SS [settings.layout.scrolling.gestures]
Trackpad gesture configuration specific to the scrolling layout.
.PP
\fIExample (from rift.default.toml):\fR
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
# Enable horizontal scroll gestures to switch columns
.br
enabled = false
.br
# Invert horizontal direction (swap left/right)
.br
invert_horizontal = false
.br
# Number of fingers required for gesture
.br
fingers = 3
.br
# If true, scrolling past the end of the strip will trigger a workspace switch
.br
propagate_to_workspace_swipe = false
.br
.RE
.fi
.TP
\fBenabled\fR
Enable horizontal scroll gestures to switch columns
.TP
\fBinvert_horizontal\fR
Invert horizontal direction (swap left/right)
.TP
\fBvertical_tolerance\fR
Maximum absolute Y delta allowed for the gesture to count as horizontal
.TP
\fBfingers\fR
Number of fingers required for scroll gesture
.TP
\fBdistance_pct\fR
Normalized horizontal distance (0..1) required to fire a scroll step
.TP
\fBpropagate_to_workspace_swipe\fR
If true, scrolling past the end of the strip will trigger a workspace switch
.TP
\fBworkspace_switch_threshold\fR
Amount of overscroll (in steps) required to trigger a workspace switch
.SS [settings.layout.stack]
Settings for the stack layout.
.PP
\fIExample (from rift.default.toml):\fR
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
# How much of each stacked window sticks out (in pixels)
.br
# Set to 0.0 to have them directly on top of each other.
.br
# Recommended: 30\-50 for clear edges while keeping focus visible.
.br
stack_offset = 40.0
.br

.br
# Default stacking orientation when creating a new stack.
.br
# Options:
.br
# \- "perpendicular" (default): choose the perpendicular orientation to the parent layout
.br
# \- "same": use the same orientation as the parent layout
.br
# \- "horizontal"/"vertical": force a specific orientation
.br
default_orientation = "perpendicular"
.br
.RE
.fi
.TP
\fBstack_offset\fR
Stack offset \- how much each stacked window is offset (in pixels)
With the enhanced stacking system, this creates meaningful visible edges
for each window in the stack while the focused window remains fully visible.
Recommended values: 30\-50 pixels for good visibility.
.TP
\fBdefault_orientation\fR
Default orientation behavior when stacking windows.
Options:
\- "perpendicular" (default): choose the perpendicular orientation to the parent layout
\- "same": use the same orientation as the parent layout
\- "horizontal"/"vertical": explicitly use a specific orientation
.SS [settings.layout.gaps]
Gap configuration for window spacing
.TP
\fBouter\fR
Outer gaps (space between windows and screen edges)
.TP
\fBinner\fR
Inner gaps (space between windows)
.TP
\fBper_display\fR
Display\-specific gap overrides keyed by display UUID
.SS [settings.layout.gaps.outer]
Outer gap configuration (space between windows and screen edges)
.PP
\fIExample (from rift.default.toml):\fR
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
top = 0
.br
left = 0
.br
bottom = 0
.br
right = 0
.br
.RE
.fi
.TP
\fBtop\fR
Gap at the top of the screen
.TP
\fBleft\fR
Gap at the left of the screen
.TP
\fBbottom\fR
Gap at the bottom of the screen
.TP
\fBright\fR
Gap at the right of the screen
.SS [settings.layout.gaps.inner]
Inner gap configuration (space between windows)
.PP
\fIExample (from rift.default.toml):\fR
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
horizontal = 0
.br
vertical = 0
.br
.RE
.fi
.TP
\fBhorizontal\fR
Horizontal gap between windows
.TP
\fBvertical\fR
Vertical gap between windows
.SS [settings.layout.gaps.per_display.<UUID>]
Overrides for gaps on a per\-display basis
.TP
\fBouter\fR
Override outer gaps completely for the display
.TP
\fBinner\fR
Override inner gaps completely for the display
.SS [settings.ui]
User\-interface chrome rendered by rift (menu bar, stack line, mission control).
.TP
\fBmenu_bar\fR
Menu\-bar indicator settings.
.TP
\fBstack_line\fR
Stack\-line indicator settings.
.TP
\fBmission_control\fR
Mission\-control overlay settings.
.SS [settings.ui.menu_bar]
Menu\-bar workspace indicator configuration.
.PP
\fIExample (from rift.default.toml):\fR
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
# enable menu bar workspace indicators
.br
enabled = false
.br
# if enabled, it will show all workspaces including empty ones. disabled because this
.br
# tends to take up too much room in the menubar and then is auto hidden by macos
.br
show_empty = false
.br
# choose between drawing every workspace or only the active workspace
.br
mode = "all"
.br
# when showing workspaces as labels ("index" or "name"), choose which label to render
.br
active_label = "index"
.br
# when displaying workspaces, choose whether to draw the layout preview or a set of labels
.br
# options are "layout" or "label"
.br
display_style = "layout"
.br
.RE
.fi
.TP
\fBenabled\fR
Enable menu\-bar workspace indicators.
.TP
\fBshow_empty\fR
Include empty workspaces when rendering the indicator.
.TP
\fBmode\fR
Which workspaces are rendered (all or only the active one).
.TP
\fBactive_label\fR
Label to use when rendering labelled workspaces.
.TP
\fBdisplay_style\fR
Display style for each workspace (layout preview or label).
.SS [settings.ui.stack_line]
Stack\-line indicator configuration (visual hint shown next to a stack).
.PP
\fIExample (from rift.default.toml):\fR
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
# experimental stack line indicator (defaults to off)
.br
enabled = false
.br
# in a horizontal stack where the line will be (top/bottom)
.br
horiz_placement = "top"
.br
# in a vertical stack where the line will be (left/right)
.br
vert_placement = "left"
.br
# how thick the indicator will be (in px)
.br
thickness = 20.0
.br
# spacing between the stack line and window edges (in px)
.br
spacing = 1.0
.br
.RE
.fi
.TP
\fBenabled\fR
Enable rendering of the stack line indicator.
.TP
\fBthickness\fR
Indicator thickness in points.
.TP
\fBhoriz_placement\fR
Which horizontal edge the indicator sits on for vertical stacks.
.TP
\fBvert_placement\fR
Which vertical edge the indicator sits on for horizontal stacks.
.TP
\fBspacing\fR
Distance to position the stack line away from the window edge (in points)
This creates spacing between the window and the stack line
.SS [settings.ui.mission_control]
Configuration for rift\*(Aqs own mission\-control overlay.
.PP
\fIExample (from rift.default.toml):\fR
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
enabled = false
.br
# enable fade animation when entering/exiting mission control
.br
fade_enabled = false
.br
# native macos mission control fade is about 180ms
.br
fade_duration_ms = 180.0
.br
.RE
.fi
.TP
\fBenabled\fR
Enable rift\*(Aqs mission\-control overlay.
.TP
\fBfade_enabled\fR
Fade in/out when entering/exiting the overlay.
.TP
\fBfade_duration_ms\fR
Fade animation duration in milliseconds.
.SS [settings.gestures]
Trackpad gesture configuration for workspace switching.
.PP
\fIExample (from rift.default.toml):\fR
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
# Enable horizontal swipes to switch virtual workspaces
.br
enabled = false
.br
# Invert horizontal direction (swap next/prev)
.br
invert_horizontal_swipe = false
.br
# Maximum vertical travel allowed for the horizontal swipe to register.
.br
# Accepts normalized fraction (0..1) or percent (0..100). Example: 0.4 or 40.0
.br
swipe_vertical_tolerance = 0.4
.br
# Skip empty workspaces when swiping
.br
skip_empty = true
.br
# Number of fingers required for swipe
.br
fingers = 3
.br
# Normalized horizontal distance (0..1) to trigger swipe for NSTouch\-based detection
.br
distance_pct = 0.08
.br
# Haptic feedback on commit (generic | alignment | level_change)
.br
haptics_enabled = true
.br
haptic_pattern = "level_change"
.br
.RE
.fi
.TP
\fBenabled\fR
Enable horizontal swipes to switch virtual workspaces
.TP
\fBinvert_horizontal_swipe\fR
Invert horizontal direction (swap next/prev)
.TP
\fBswipe_vertical_tolerance\fR
Maximum absolute Y delta allowed for the gesture to count as horizontal
.TP
\fBskip_empty\fR
If true, attempt to skip empty workspaces on swipe (if supported)
.TP
\fBfingers\fR
Number of fingers required for swipe (default = 3)
.TP
\fBdistance_pct\fR
Normalized horizontal distance (0..1) required to fire a swipe
.TP
\fBhaptics_enabled\fR
Enable haptic feedback when a swipe commits
.TP
\fBhaptic_pattern\fR
Haptic feedback pattern (generic | alignment | level_change)
.SS [settings.window_snapping]
Drag\-and\-snap behaviour for tiled windows.
.PP
\fIExample (from rift.default.toml):\fR
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
# Fraction threshold (0.0..1.0) specifying how much of the dragged window
.br
# area must be overlapped by a candidate window in order to trigger a
.br
# swap while dragging. Typical values are around 0.2–0.4.
.br
# If you prefer more aggressive swapping, lower the value; increase it
.br
# to require greater overlap before a swap occurs.
.br
drag_swap_fraction = 0.3
.br
.RE
.fi
.TP
\fBdrag_swap_fraction\fR
Fraction (0.0..1.0) of overlap required to swap windows while dragging.
.SS [virtual_workspaces]
Settings controlling rift\*(Aqs virtual workspaces.
.PP
\fIExample (from rift.default.toml):\fR
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
# Virtual workspaces
.br
# \- enabled: if false, rift behaves like a simple tiling WM with a single space
.br
# \- default_workspace_count: number of workspaces to create on startup (1–32)
.br
# \- auto_assign_windows: when true, new windows can be auto\-assigned using app_rules
.br
# \- preserve_focus_per_workspace: remember last focused window per workspace
.br
# \- workspace_auto_back_and_forth: when enabled, if you try to switch to the same workspace
.br
#   that\*(Aqs already active, it will switch to the last workspace instead
.br
# \- reapply_app_rules_on_title_change: if true, app rules are re\-evaluated when a window\*(Aqs title changes
.br
enabled = true
.br
default_workspace_count = 4
.br
auto_assign_windows = true
.br
preserve_focus_per_workspace = true
.br
workspace_auto_back_and_forth = false
.br
reapply_app_rules_on_title_change = false
.br

.br
# Workspace\-specific rules
.br
# \- workspace: target workspace by index (integer) or name (string)
.br
# \- layout: layout mode to use ("traditional", "bsp", "stack", "master_stack", "scrolling")
.br
# workspace_rules = [
.br
#   { workspace = 1, layout = "bsp" },
.br
#   { workspace = "second", layout = "scrolling" }
.br
# ]
.br
workspace_rules = []
.br

.br

.br
# Default workspace to activate on startup (0\-based index).
.br
# If omitted, defaults to 0 (first workspace). Must be less than default_workspace_count.
.br
# Uncomment to change:
.br
# default_workspace = 0
.br

.br
# Workspace names (indexed order). If fewer than default_workspace_count are provided,
.br
# remaining workspaces are named "Workspace X".
.br
# Do not provide more names than default_workspace_count.
.br
workspace_names = [
.br
	"first",
.br
	"second"
.br
]
.br

.br
# App rules (automatic assignment)
.br
# Define rules that match new windows and set properties (workspace, floating, etc).
.br
#
.br
# Matchable fields:
.br
#   \- app_id         : application bundle identifier (exact)
.br
#   \- app_name       : substring match against application name
.br
#   \- title_regex    : regular expression matched against the window title
.br
#   \- title_substring: literal substring (case\-sensitive) matched against the title
.br
#   \- ax_role / ax_subrole: exact match against macOS Accessibility (AX) role/subrole
.br
#
.br
# Rule options:
.br
#   \- workspace (integer, 0\-based): target workspace index. If omitted or invalid, uses the active workspace.
.br
#     Alternatively, `workspace` may be a workspace name string to target by name.
.br
#   \- floating (boolean): whether matched windows should float by default.
.br
#   \- manage (boolean): whether Rift should manage the matching window. Set to false to ignore the window completely (default = true).
.br
#
.br
# Matching behavior (summary):
.br
#   1. All rules that match a window are evaluated.
.br
#   2. If multiple matching rules share the same non\-empty `app_id`, the rule
.br
#      with the most specified conditions (the most non\-empty fields) wins.
.br
#      If there\*(Aqs a tie, the earlier rule in the file wins.
.br
#   3. If matching rules do NOT share the same `app_id`, the rule with the
.br
#      highest specificity (most non\-empty fields) is selected; ties are broken by order.
.br
#   4. Within a single rule, all specified fields are combined conjunctively:
.br
#      the rule matches only if every non\-empty field matches the window.
.br
#
.br
# Tips:
.br
#   \- To make exceptions for a specific app, place a more specific rule before
.br
#     a general `app_id` rule. Example:
.br
#       app_rules = [
.br
#         { app_id = "com.example.X", title_regex = "Dialog", floating = true },
.br
#         { app_id = "com.example.X", floating = false },
.br
#       ]
.br
#
.br
#   \- Use `title_substring` for simple, literal (case\-sensitive) substring matches.
.br
#     Use `title_regex` for advanced patterns.
.br
#
.br
# Accessibility (AX) matching:
.br
#   \- `ax_role` and `ax_subrole` match the exact AX values reported by macOS
.br
#     (e.g., "AXWindow", "AXDialog", "AXSystemDialog", "AXToolbar").
.br
#   \- Useful for distinguishing dialogs, sheets, toolbars, etc., when bundle/name/title aren\*(Aqt enough.
.br
#
.br
# Validation:
.br
#   \- `title_regex` must be a valid regular expression. Invalid regexes cause the rule
.br
#     to be ignored and a warning to be logged.
.br
#
.br
# Examples:
.br
#   \- Float any window with "Preferences" in the title:
.br
#       app_rules = [
.br
#         { title_substring = "Preferences", floating = true },
.br
#       ]
.br
#
.br
#   \- Match by app name substring and workspace:
.br
#       app_rules = [
.br
#         { app_name = "Calendar", workspace = 2, floating = true },
.br
#       ]
.br
#
.br
#   \- Accessibility example: float dialog windows for a specific app:
.br
#       app_rules = [
.br
#         { app_id = "com.example.X", ax_subrole = "AXDialog", floating = true },
.br
#       ]
.br
#
.br
# By default there are no app rules; add or uncomment rules below as needed.
.br
app_rules = []
.br
.RE
.fi
.TP
\fBenabled\fR
Enable virtual workspaces. When false, rift behaves like a single\-workspace tiler.
.TP
\fBdefault_workspace_count\fR
Number of workspaces to create on startup (1..=32).
.TP
\fBauto_assign_windows\fR
Apply `app_rules` to newly observed windows automatically.
.TP
\fBpreserve_focus_per_workspace\fR
Remember the last focused window for each workspace.
.TP
\fBworkspace_auto_back_and_forth\fR
Switching to the active workspace re\-activates the previously focused one.
.TP
\fBworkspace_names\fR
Ordered list of workspace names. Extra workspaces fall back to `Workspace N`.
.TP
\fBdefault_workspace\fR
Workspace to activate on startup (0\-based).
.TP
\fBreapply_app_rules_on_title_change\fR
Re\-evaluate `app_rules` when a window\*(Aqs title changes.
.TP
\fBapp_rules\fR
Rules used to match windows and assign workspace/floating properties.
.TP
\fBworkspace_rules\fR
Per\-workspace layout overrides.
.SS "  app_rules[].<item>"
Rule that matches windows and assigns workspace/floating properties.
.TP
\fBapp_id\fR
Application bundle identifier (e.g., "com.apple.Terminal")
.TP
\fBworkspace\fR
Target workspace index (0 based) OR workspace name. If None, window goes to active workspace.
.TP
\fBfloating\fR
Whether windows should be floating in this workspace
.TP
\fBscratchpad\fR
Whether windows should be treated as scratchpad windows.
Can be `true` (generic scratchpad) or a string name (named scratchpad).
.TP
\fBmanage\fR
Whether Rift should manage matching windows (defaults to true). `false` makes the
window invisible to Rift (no tiling, floating, or assignments).
.TP
\fBapp_name\fR
Optional: Application name pattern (alternative to app_id)
.TP
\fBtitle_regex\fR
Optional: Regular expression to match window title (applies to window.title)

If present, this regex will be used when attempting to match a window by
title.
.TP
\fBtitle_substring\fR
Optional: Substring to search for in window title (applies to window.title)

If present, rift will internally treat this as a substring match and will
construct a regex to match titles containing this substring. This allows
people who don\*(Aqt want to write full regexes to match by a simple substring.
.TP
\fBax_role\fR
Optional: Accessibility role to match (AXRole). If present, it must be a
non\-empty string and will be compared against the accessibility role
reported by the AX APIs for a window (exact string match).
.TP
\fBax_subrole\fR
Optional: Accessibility subrole to match (AXSubrole). If present, it must be a
non\-empty string and will be compared against the accessibility subrole
reported by the AX APIs for a window (exact string match).
.SS "  workspace_rules[].<item>"
Rule that pins a workspace to a specific layout mode.
.TP
\fBworkspace\fR
Target workspace by index or name
.TP
\fBlayout\fR
Layout mode to use for this workspace
.SS "Enumerated values"
.SS LayoutMode
Layout mode enum
.SS AnimationEasing
Easing curve used for window animations.
.SS MasterStackSide
Which screen edge the master area occupies in the master/stack layout.
.SS MasterStackNewWindowPlacement
Where new windows are inserted when the master area is full.
.SS ScrollingAlignment
Alignment for the focused column in the scrolling layout.
.SS ScrollingFocusNavigationStyle
Focus navigation behaviour for the scrolling layout.
.SS StackDefaultOrientation
Default orientation behaviour when creating a new stack.
.SS HorizontalPlacement
Horizontal placement of an indicator on a window edge.
.SS VerticalPlacement
Vertical placement of an indicator on a window edge.
.SS MenuBarDisplayMode
Which workspaces to render in the menu\-bar indicator.
.SS ActiveWorkspaceLabel
Label rendered for a workspace when using the labelled menu\-bar style.
.SS WorkspaceDisplayStyle
How workspaces are rendered in the menu bar.
.SS HapticPattern
Haptic feedback pattern used when a gesture commits.
.SS ScratchpadConfig
Configuration for marking a matched window as a scratchpad.
.SS WorkspaceSelector
Selector for referring to a workspace either by numeric index or by name.
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH KEYS
The [keys] table maps hotkey specs to commands. A hotkey spec is a string like "Alt + Shift + H". Supported modifiers are Alt, Ctrl, Shift, and Meta (the Command ⌘ key on macOS). Arrow keys may be written as ArrowUp / ArrowDown / ArrowLeft / ArrowRight or simply Up / Down / Left / Right. The [modifier_combinations] table lets you alias modifier groups (for example, comb1 = "Alt + Shift") and then use them in [keys] ("comb1 + H").
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH "EXAMPLE CONFIG"
The configuration below is rift\*(Aqs built\-in default. It is reproduced verbatim from rift.default.toml and is used as a fallback when no user config exists.
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
# rift config
.br
# Copy this file to ~/.config/rift/config.toml or $HOME~/.config/rift/config.toml
.br

.br
[settings]
.br
# Animations
.br
# \- animate: master switch for all window animations
.br
# \- animation_duration: seconds per animation (>= 0.0, typical 0.15–0.35)
.br
# \- animation_fps: frames per second (0.0 = display refresh rate). 60–120 recommended.
.br
#   ease_in_circ, ease_out_circ, ease_in_out_circ
.br
animate = false
.br
animation_duration = 0.3
.br
animation_fps = 100.0
.br

.br
# Space activation behavior
.br
# \- If true, spaces start inactive (rift does not manage windows there)
.br
#   and you must toggle activation via a keybind (toggle_space_activated).
.br
# \- If false, spaces are managed by default and you can disable specific ones.
.br
# Default is true; uncomment to change.
.br
#default_disable = false
.br

.br
# Mouse/Focus behavior
.br
# \- focus_follows_mouse: moving the mouse into a window focuses it
.br
# \- mouse_follows_focus: when focus changes, move the mouse to the focused window
.br
# \- mouse_hides_on_focus: hide the mouse cursor after focusing a window
.br
focus_follows_mouse = true
.br
mouse_follows_focus = true
.br
mouse_hides_on_focus = true
.br
# focus_follows_mouse_disable_hotkey temporarily suspends focus\-follows\-mouse while held
.br
# e.g. "Fn"; omit or set to null to keep focus\-follows\-mouse always active
.br
#focus_follows_mouse_disable_hotkey = "Fn"
.br

.br
# Prevent certain apps from stealing focus/causing workspace switches
.br
# Provide bundle identifiers (e.g., "com.apple.Spotlight")
.br
# Examples:
.br
#   "com.apple.dock", "com.apple.systemuiserver", "com.apple.SecurityAgent",
.br
#   "com.raycast.macos", "com.apple.Spotlight"
.br
auto_focus_blacklist = []
.br

.br
# Run commands on start
.br
#
.br
# Tip: You can subscribe to rift events and trigger your own scripts. The command will
.br
# receive environment variables with context:
.br
#   RIFT_EVENT_TYPE            # "workspace_changed" | "windows_changed" | "window_title_changed"
.br
#   RIFT_WORKSPACE_ID          # workspace id
.br
#   RIFT_WORKSPACE_NAME        # workspace name
.br
#   RIFT_WORKSPACE_INDEX       # workspace index (window_title_changed only)
.br
#   RIFT_WINDOW_COUNT          # number of windows (windows_changed only)
.br
#   RIFT_WINDOWS               # comma\-separated window ids (windows_changed only)
.br
#   RIFT_WINDOW_ID             # window id (window_title_changed only)
.br
#   RIFT_PREVIOUS_WINDOW_TITLE # previous title (window_title_changed only)
.br
#   RIFT_WINDOW_TITLE          # new title (window_title_changed only)
.br
#   RIFT_EVENT_JSON            # full JSON payload of the event
.br
#
.br
# Example (sketchybar integration):
.br
# run_on_start = [
.br
#   "rift\-cli subscribe cli \-\-event workspace_changed \-\-command sh \-\-args \-c \-\-args \*(Aqsketchybar \-\-trigger rift_workspace_changed RIFT_WORKSPACE_NAME=\\"$RIFT_WORKSPACE_NAME\\" RIFT_WORKSPACE_ID=\\"$RIFT_WORKSPACE_ID\\"\*(Aq",
.br
#   "rift\-cli subscribe cli \-\-event windows_changed \-\-command sh \-\-args \-c \-\-args \*(Aqsketchybar \-\-trigger rift_windows_changed RIFT_WORKSPACE_NAME=\\"$RIFT_WORKSPACE_NAME\\" RIFT_WINDOW_COUNT=\\"$RIFT_WINDOW_COUNT\\"\*(Aq"
.br
# ]
.br

.br
run_on_start = []
.br

.br
# Hot Reloading
.br
# \- If true, rift will watch the config file for changes and reload automatically.
.br
# \- If false, your config changes will only apply when restarting rift.
.br
hot_reload = true
.br

.br
[settings.layout]
.br
# Layout Types:
.br
# 	\- "traditional" (i3/sway\-like containers)
.br
#	\- "bsp" (binary space partitioning),
.br
#   \- "stack" (single stacked container)
.br
#   \- "master_stack" (master area + stack area)
.br
# defaults to "traditional" if omitted
.br
#
.br
# This is the default layout mode if there is nothing else configured
.br
# in the `workspace_rules` section below.
.br
# You can set different layouts per workspace using `workspace_rules`.
.br
mode = "traditional"
.br

.br
# these settings only apply when layout mode == "master_stack"
.br
[settings.layout.master_stack]
.br
# Fraction of space reserved for the master area (0.05..0.95)
.br
master_ratio = 0.6
.br
# Number of windows kept in the master area (>= 1)
.br
master_count = 1
.br
# Which side the master area occupies (left | right | top | bottom)
.br
master_side = "left"
.br
# Where new windows go when the master area is already full (master | stack | focused)
.br
new_window_placement = "master"
.br

.br
# these settings only apply when layout mode == "scrolling"
.br
[settings.layout.scrolling]
.br
# width of the active column (0..1 of screen width)
.br
column_width_ratio = 0.7
.br
# min_column_width_ratio / max_column_width_ratio: clamp bounds used by resize commands
.br
min_column_width_ratio = 0.3
.br
max_column_width_ratio = 0.9
.br
# Alignment for the focused column: "left", "center", or "right"
.br
alignment = "center"
.br
# Horizontal focus behavior:
.br
# \- "niri": reveal columns only when needed based on navigation direction
.br
# 			(disrespects alignment setting above)
.br
# \- "anchored": always align focused column according to `alignment`
.br
focus_navigation_style = "niri"
.br
# the scrolling layout tends to function better without animations,
.br
# so you can disable them if you like
.br
# animate = false
.br

.br
[settings.layout.scrolling.gestures]
.br
# Enable horizontal scroll gestures to switch columns
.br
enabled = false
.br
# Invert horizontal direction (swap left/right)
.br
invert_horizontal = false
.br
# Number of fingers required for gesture
.br
fingers = 3
.br
# If true, scrolling past the end of the strip will trigger a workspace switch
.br
propagate_to_workspace_swipe = false
.br

.br
[settings.layout.stack]
.br
# How much of each stacked window sticks out (in pixels)
.br
# Set to 0.0 to have them directly on top of each other.
.br
# Recommended: 30\-50 for clear edges while keeping focus visible.
.br
stack_offset = 40.0
.br

.br
# Default stacking orientation when creating a new stack.
.br
# Options:
.br
# \- "perpendicular" (default): choose the perpendicular orientation to the parent layout
.br
# \- "same": use the same orientation as the parent layout
.br
# \- "horizontal"/"vertical": force a specific orientation
.br
default_orientation = "perpendicular"
.br

.br
[settings.layout.gaps]
.br
# Gap configuration
.br
# \- outer: space between windows and screen edges
.br
# \- inner: space between tiled windows
.br
# \- per_display: optional display\-specific overrides keyed by display UUID.
.br
#   When present, the values in a per\-display override replace the defaults
.br
#   (you may override only `outer`, only `inner`, or both for a display).
.br
#   Use the display\*(Aqs UUID as the key (for example, from system profiler or via rift CLI).
.br

.br
[settings.layout.gaps.outer]
.br
top = 0
.br
left = 0
.br
bottom = 0
.br
right = 0
.br

.br
[settings.layout.gaps.inner]
.br
horizontal = 0
.br
vertical = 0
.br

.br
# Example per\-display overrides:
.br
# Replace the quoted key with your display\*(Aqs UUID. Only specify values you want to override.
.br
# [settings.layout.gaps.per_display."11111111\-2222\-3333\-4444\-555555555555".outer]
.br
# top = 20
.br
# left = 20
.br
# bottom = 20
.br
# right = 20
.br
#
.br
# [settings.layout.gaps.per_display."11111111\-2222\-3333\-4444\-555555555555".inner]
.br
# horizontal = 8
.br
# vertical = 8
.br
[settings.ui.menu_bar]
.br
# enable menu bar workspace indicators
.br
enabled = false
.br
# if enabled, it will show all workspaces including empty ones. disabled because this
.br
# tends to take up too much room in the menubar and then is auto hidden by macos
.br
show_empty = false
.br
# choose between drawing every workspace or only the active workspace
.br
mode = "all"
.br
# when showing workspaces as labels ("index" or "name"), choose which label to render
.br
active_label = "index"
.br
# when displaying workspaces, choose whether to draw the layout preview or a set of labels
.br
# options are "layout" or "label"
.br
display_style = "layout"
.br

.br
[settings.ui.stack_line]
.br
# experimental stack line indicator (defaults to off)
.br
enabled = false
.br
# in a horizontal stack where the line will be (top/bottom)
.br
horiz_placement = "top"
.br
# in a vertical stack where the line will be (left/right)
.br
vert_placement = "left"
.br
# how thick the indicator will be (in px)
.br
thickness = 20.0
.br
# spacing between the stack line and window edges (in px)
.br
spacing = 1.0
.br

.br
# experimental mission control
.br
[settings.ui.mission_control]
.br
enabled = false
.br
# enable fade animation when entering/exiting mission control
.br
fade_enabled = false
.br
# native macos mission control fade is about 180ms
.br
fade_duration_ms = 180.0
.br

.br
# Trackpad gestures
.br
[settings.gestures]
.br
# Enable horizontal swipes to switch virtual workspaces
.br
enabled = false
.br
# Invert horizontal direction (swap next/prev)
.br
invert_horizontal_swipe = false
.br
# Maximum vertical travel allowed for the horizontal swipe to register.
.br
# Accepts normalized fraction (0..1) or percent (0..100). Example: 0.4 or 40.0
.br
swipe_vertical_tolerance = 0.4
.br
# Skip empty workspaces when swiping
.br
skip_empty = true
.br
# Number of fingers required for swipe
.br
fingers = 3
.br
# Normalized horizontal distance (0..1) to trigger swipe for NSTouch\-based detection
.br
distance_pct = 0.08
.br
# Haptic feedback on commit (generic | alignment | level_change)
.br
haptics_enabled = true
.br
haptic_pattern = "level_change"
.br

.br
# Window snapping / drag\-swap behavior
.br
[settings.window_snapping]
.br
# Fraction threshold (0.0..1.0) specifying how much of the dragged window
.br
# area must be overlapped by a candidate window in order to trigger a
.br
# swap while dragging. Typical values are around 0.2–0.4.
.br
# If you prefer more aggressive swapping, lower the value; increase it
.br
# to require greater overlap before a swap occurs.
.br
drag_swap_fraction = 0.3
.br

.br
[virtual_workspaces]
.br
# Virtual workspaces
.br
# \- enabled: if false, rift behaves like a simple tiling WM with a single space
.br
# \- default_workspace_count: number of workspaces to create on startup (1–32)
.br
# \- auto_assign_windows: when true, new windows can be auto\-assigned using app_rules
.br
# \- preserve_focus_per_workspace: remember last focused window per workspace
.br
# \- workspace_auto_back_and_forth: when enabled, if you try to switch to the same workspace
.br
#   that\*(Aqs already active, it will switch to the last workspace instead
.br
# \- reapply_app_rules_on_title_change: if true, app rules are re\-evaluated when a window\*(Aqs title changes
.br
enabled = true
.br
default_workspace_count = 4
.br
auto_assign_windows = true
.br
preserve_focus_per_workspace = true
.br
workspace_auto_back_and_forth = false
.br
reapply_app_rules_on_title_change = false
.br

.br
# Workspace\-specific rules
.br
# \- workspace: target workspace by index (integer) or name (string)
.br
# \- layout: layout mode to use ("traditional", "bsp", "stack", "master_stack", "scrolling")
.br
# workspace_rules = [
.br
#   { workspace = 1, layout = "bsp" },
.br
#   { workspace = "second", layout = "scrolling" }
.br
# ]
.br
workspace_rules = []
.br

.br

.br
# Default workspace to activate on startup (0\-based index).
.br
# If omitted, defaults to 0 (first workspace). Must be less than default_workspace_count.
.br
# Uncomment to change:
.br
# default_workspace = 0
.br

.br
# Workspace names (indexed order). If fewer than default_workspace_count are provided,
.br
# remaining workspaces are named "Workspace X".
.br
# Do not provide more names than default_workspace_count.
.br
workspace_names = [
.br
	"first",
.br
	"second"
.br
]
.br

.br
# App rules (automatic assignment)
.br
# Define rules that match new windows and set properties (workspace, floating, etc).
.br
#
.br
# Matchable fields:
.br
#   \- app_id         : application bundle identifier (exact)
.br
#   \- app_name       : substring match against application name
.br
#   \- title_regex    : regular expression matched against the window title
.br
#   \- title_substring: literal substring (case\-sensitive) matched against the title
.br
#   \- ax_role / ax_subrole: exact match against macOS Accessibility (AX) role/subrole
.br
#
.br
# Rule options:
.br
#   \- workspace (integer, 0\-based): target workspace index. If omitted or invalid, uses the active workspace.
.br
#     Alternatively, `workspace` may be a workspace name string to target by name.
.br
#   \- floating (boolean): whether matched windows should float by default.
.br
#   \- manage (boolean): whether Rift should manage the matching window. Set to false to ignore the window completely (default = true).
.br
#
.br
# Matching behavior (summary):
.br
#   1. All rules that match a window are evaluated.
.br
#   2. If multiple matching rules share the same non\-empty `app_id`, the rule
.br
#      with the most specified conditions (the most non\-empty fields) wins.
.br
#      If there\*(Aqs a tie, the earlier rule in the file wins.
.br
#   3. If matching rules do NOT share the same `app_id`, the rule with the
.br
#      highest specificity (most non\-empty fields) is selected; ties are broken by order.
.br
#   4. Within a single rule, all specified fields are combined conjunctively:
.br
#      the rule matches only if every non\-empty field matches the window.
.br
#
.br
# Tips:
.br
#   \- To make exceptions for a specific app, place a more specific rule before
.br
#     a general `app_id` rule. Example:
.br
#       app_rules = [
.br
#         { app_id = "com.example.X", title_regex = "Dialog", floating = true },
.br
#         { app_id = "com.example.X", floating = false },
.br
#       ]
.br
#
.br
#   \- Use `title_substring` for simple, literal (case\-sensitive) substring matches.
.br
#     Use `title_regex` for advanced patterns.
.br
#
.br
# Accessibility (AX) matching:
.br
#   \- `ax_role` and `ax_subrole` match the exact AX values reported by macOS
.br
#     (e.g., "AXWindow", "AXDialog", "AXSystemDialog", "AXToolbar").
.br
#   \- Useful for distinguishing dialogs, sheets, toolbars, etc., when bundle/name/title aren\*(Aqt enough.
.br
#
.br
# Validation:
.br
#   \- `title_regex` must be a valid regular expression. Invalid regexes cause the rule
.br
#     to be ignored and a warning to be logged.
.br
#
.br
# Examples:
.br
#   \- Float any window with "Preferences" in the title:
.br
#       app_rules = [
.br
#         { title_substring = "Preferences", floating = true },
.br
#       ]
.br
#
.br
#   \- Match by app name substring and workspace:
.br
#       app_rules = [
.br
#         { app_name = "Calendar", workspace = 2, floating = true },
.br
#       ]
.br
#
.br
#   \- Accessibility example: float dialog windows for a specific app:
.br
#       app_rules = [
.br
#         { app_id = "com.example.X", ax_subrole = "AXDialog", floating = true },
.br
#       ]
.br
#
.br
# By default there are no app rules; add or uncomment rules below as needed.
.br
app_rules = []
.br

.br
# Modifier combinations that can be reused in key bindings
.br
# Define common modifier combinations to avoid repetition.
.br
# Example usage: with `comb1 = "Alt + Shift"`, you can write:
.br
#   "comb1 + H" = { move_node = "left" }
.br
[modifier_combinations]
.br
comb1 = "Alt + Shift"
.br

.br
[keys]
.br
# Key binding syntax
.br
# \- Use quotes around the key: "Alt + Shift + H"
.br
# \- Supported modifiers: Alt, Ctrl, Shift, Meta (Meta = Command ⌘ on macOS)
.br
# \- Arrow keys can be written as ArrowUp/ArrowDown/ArrowLeft/ArrowRight, or just Up/Down/Left/Right
.br
# \- Spacing is flexible: "Alt+Down" and "Alt + Down" are equivalent
.br
# \- Key values map to commands (see list below)
.br

.br
# Commands
.br
# \- toggle_space_activated
.br
# \- next_workspace / prev_workspace
.br
# \- next_workspace = true|false (optional skip\-empty override)
.br
# \- prev_workspace = true|false (optional skip\-empty override)
.br
# \- switch_to_workspace = N
.br
# \- move_window_to_workspace = N / move_window_to_workspace = { workspace = N, window_id = 123 } (optional window id)
.br
# \- create_workspace
.br
# \- switch_to_last_workspace
.br
# \- set_workspace_layout = { mode = "traditional"|"bsp"|"stack"|"master_stack"|"scrolling" } (active workspace)
.br
# \- set_workspace_layout = { workspace = N, mode = "traditional"|"bsp"|"stack"|"master_stack"|"scrolling" }
.br
# \- next_window / prev_window (focus wraps when it reaches last window in current workspace)
.br
# \- ascend / descend
.br
# \- move_focus = "left"|"right"|"up"|"down"
.br
# \- move_node = "left"|"right"|"up"|"down"
.br
# \- join_window = "left"|"right"|"up"|"down"
.br
# \- toggle_stack / toggle_orientation / unjoin_windows
.br
# \- toggle_focus_floating / toggle_window_floating / toggle_fullscreen / toggle_fullscreen_within_gaps
.br
# \- resize_window_grow / resize_window_shrink / resize_window_by = 0.05
.br
# \- swap_windows = [123, 456]
.br
# \- exec = "command" | exec = ["cmd", "arg1", "..."]
.br
# \- move_mouse_to_display = "left"|"right"|"up"|"down"|N|"<display_uuid>"
.br
# \- move_window_to_display = { selector = "left"|"right"|"up"|"down"|N|"<display_uuid>", window_id = 123 }
.br
# \- close_window = { window_server_id = 123 }
.br
# \- focus_window = { window_id = 123, window_server_id = 456 }
.br
# \- show_mission_control_all / show_mission_control_current / dismiss_mission_control (this is rift\*(Aqs own mission control, not macOS\*(Aqs)
.br

.br
# the following commands *only* work when the master stack layout is active
.br
# \- adjust_master_ratio = 0.05 / adjust_master_count = 1
.br
# \- promote_to_master / swap_master_stack
.br

.br
# the following commands *only* work when the scrolling layout is active
.br
# \- scroll_strip = { delta = 0.5 }
.br
# \- snap_strip / center_selection
.br

.br
"Alt + Z" = "toggle_space_activated"
.br

.br
"Alt + H" = { move_focus = "left" }
.br
"Alt + J" = { move_focus = "down" }
.br
"Alt + K" = { move_focus = "up" }
.br
"Alt + L" = { move_focus = "right" }
.br

.br
"comb1 + H" = { move_node = "left" }
.br
"comb1 + J" = { move_node = "down" }
.br
"comb1 + K" = { move_node = "up" }
.br
"comb1 + L" = { move_node = "right" }
.br

.br
"Alt + 0" = { switch_to_workspace = 0 }
.br
"Alt + 1" = { switch_to_workspace = 1 }
.br
"Alt + 2" = { switch_to_workspace = 2 }
.br
"Alt + 3" = { switch_to_workspace = 3 }
.br

.br
"comb1 + 0" = { move_window_to_workspace = 0 }
.br
"comb1 + 1" = { move_window_to_workspace = 1 }
.br
"comb1 + 2" = { move_window_to_workspace = 2 }
.br
"comb1 + 3" = { move_window_to_workspace = 3 }
.br

.br
# scratchpad
.br
"Alt + Shift + S" = "add_scratchpad"
.br
#"Alt + S" = "toggle_scratchpad"
.br

.br
"Alt + Tab" = "switch_to_last_workspace"
.br

.br
# commands to change the layout engine of the active workspace
.br
# "Alt + Ctrl + 1" = { set_workspace_layout = { mode = "traditional" } }
.br
# "Alt + Ctrl + 2" = { set_workspace_layout = { mode = "bsp" } }
.br
# "Alt + Ctrl + 3" = { set_workspace_layout = { mode = "master_stack" } }
.br
# "Alt + Ctrl + 4" = { set_workspace_layout = { mode = "scrolling" } }
.br

.br
"Alt + Shift + Left" = { join_window = "left" }
.br
"Alt + Shift + Right" = { join_window = "right" }
.br
"Alt + Shift + Up" = { join_window = "up" }
.br
"Alt + Shift + Down" = { join_window = "down" }
.br
"Alt + Comma" = "toggle_stack"
.br
"Alt + Slash" = "toggle_orientation"
.br
"Alt + Ctrl + E" = "unjoin_windows"
.br

.br
"Alt + Shift + Space" = "toggle_window_floating"
.br
"Alt + F" = "toggle_fullscreen"
.br
"Alt + Shift + F" = "toggle_fullscreen_within_gaps"
.br
"comb1 + Ctrl + Space" = "toggle_focus_floating" # briefly bring focus to floating window
.br

.br
# smartly resize windows
.br
"Alt + Shift + Equal" = "resize_window_grow"
.br
"Alt + Shift + Minus" = "resize_window_shrink"
.br

.br
# Move mouse cursor to display by index (0\-based) or UUID
.br
# Examples:
.br
# "Alt + Shift + A" = { move_mouse_to_display = 0 }
.br
# "Alt + Shift + S" = { move_mouse_to_display = 1 }
.br
# "Alt + Shift + D" = { move_mouse_to_display = "e9a4f5a1\-2f8b\-45c1\-9f4e\-5a6b7c8d9e0f" }
.br
# Focus another display (direction/index/uuid)
.br
# "Alt + Shift + F" = { focus_display = "right" }
.br

.br
# Move a window to a display (by index, UUID, or direction)
.br
# "Alt + Ctrl + Up" = { move_window_to_display = { selector = "up" } }
.br
# "Alt + Ctrl + Down" = { move_window_to_display = { selector = "down" } }
.br
# "Alt + Ctrl + Left" = { move_window_to_display = { selector = "left" } }
.br
# "Alt + Ctrl + Right" = { move_window_to_display = { selector = "right" } }
.br
# "Alt + Ctrl + A" = { move_window_to_display = { selector = 0 } }
.br

.br
# if mission control is enabled
.br
# this will show an exploded view of the windows in the active workspace
.br
# "Alt + Ctrl + Shift + M" = "show_mission_control_current"
.br
# this will show the mission control view shown in the readme
.br
# "Alt + Ctrl + M" = "show_mission_control_all"
.br

.br
"Alt + Enter" = { "exec" = ["/bin/bash", "\-c", "open \-a \\"/System/Applications/Utilities/Terminal.app\\""] }
.br

.br
"Alt + Shift + D" = "debug" # prints layout tree
.br

.br
"Alt + Ctrl + S" = "serialize"
.br
"Alt + Ctrl + Q" = "save_and_exit"
.br
.RE
.fi
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP RUST_LOG
Tracing/log filter (tracing\-subscriber EnvFilter syntax, e.g. "rift_wm=debug" or "info,rift_wm::actor=trace").
.IP RUST_BACKTRACE
Standard Rust backtrace control. rift forces this to "1" if unset.
.IP RIFT_BS_NAME
Mach bootstrap name used for the rift IPC server. Override only when running multiple rift instances side\-by\-side.
.IP RIFT_EVENT_TYPE
Set on subscriber commands: event name ("workspace_changed", "windows_changed", "window_title_changed", "stacks_changed").
.IP RIFT_WORKSPACE_ID
Set on subscriber commands: workspace identifier for the event.
.IP RIFT_WORKSPACE_NAME
Set on subscriber commands: workspace name for the event.
.IP RIFT_WORKSPACE_INDEX
Set on subscriber commands: workspace index (when available).
.IP RIFT_WINDOW_COUNT
Set on subscriber commands for windows_changed events.
.IP RIFT_WINDOWS
Set on subscriber commands: comma\-separated list of window ids.
.IP RIFT_WINDOW_TITLE
Set on subscriber commands for window_title_changed events.
.IP RIFT_PREVIOUS_WINDOW_TITLE
Previous title before a window_title_changed event.
.IP RIFT_EVENT_JSON
Full JSON payload of the event being delivered.
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH FILES
.IP ~/.config/rift/config.toml
User configuration file.
.IP ~/.rift/
Runtime data directory.
.IP ~/.rift/layout.ron
Layout restore file (legacy).
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.IP 0
Successful program execution.
.IP 1
Unsuccessful program execution.
.IP 101
The program panicked.
